On September 9, we were transferred to the Old Fort, Delhi. 
Here, there were two attempted attacks but they were unsuccessful. 
In just a couple of days, we saw the entire Fort, including the Mosque of Sher Shah and the Mousalliam of Hummayon, 
which became the refuge of about 1200 people. There was barely food and a lot of malpractice, 
but we were all waiting to go to their new home and so they survived as much as we could.
I just prayed and recited the Quran every day. The days we spent in the Fort were memorable, 
in that, it was a refuge for us desolate, desperate people, people who had no earthly possessions anymore, 
whatever we could carry, that's what we brought, and that's basically all we had. 
There were some Muslim officers who weren't following the rules. 
The government of Pakistan send some planes to pick up government officials, like me, 
but the officers in charge let anyone go and the people that they were meant for, including me, 
kept waiting and going back in the line. So we were just waiting to get out however we could. 
I did talk to one British officer who accepted Pakistani citizenship, 
and was trying to help with the GHQ but the whole process was not easy.
Outside the Fort, there was violence that reigned in the city. 
Neighborhood after neighborhood was being attacked to clear out Muslims, 
and all of the Muslim mansions and houses were being looted, and Muslims were being killed on the streets, 
so it was like a "Holi of Blood". This was the beginning of the Hindu reign in India.
On the night of the eleventh of September, there was a huge storm, and there was a lot of rain, 
which seemed like God was cleansing his people before they go to Pakistan, and 
participate in its development without any issues, which I wish would have happened. 
On the fifteenth of September 1947, the administration of the refugee camps, 
both inside and outside of the Fort was taken over by the government of India, 
and they were now responsible for the movement of the refugees. 
We then found out that the planes that were coming earlier are no longer coming, 
and that arrangement had been concluded. So, now the Muslims who wanted to go to Pakistan had special trains that were running to Pakistan. 
We also found out that all of our belongings have been looted so whatever we were carrying was all that we had left. 
On September 18, the list of people who would be boarding on the trains included my name and my friend, Muhammad Syed's name. 
On the nineteenth of September, after a lot of effort, we got a truck to take us to the train station and bought a ticket. 
After much difficulty, we got a small space in a cabin that did not have any doors or windows. In the cabin, 
I had my friend with me, who had his family with him as well as another family. We were searched many times, 
and if anyone had any weaponry, the weaponry was taken from them. 
The train had military officials that were there to protect the Hindu government officials, 
under the command of the Army officer, and the government officials left at 10:15 in the morning. 
As the train went through the city, I saw the Jammeh Masjid, the Red Fort with sad parting eyes. 
As we were essentially being exiled out of their city, I could hear the laughter of the Sikhs and Hindus. 
My friend and I prayed that we are allowed to come back someday as victors. 
As the train approached the Delhi station, it slowed down and I could see the armed Sikhs around,
and hear gunfire coming from the direction of the City. Thankfully, the train did not stop and kept going. 
Whenever it did stop, the train took more passengers and you could see the Muslims very emotional as they were leaving for Pakistan, 
they were crying and didn't know if they could.
At one point, a guerilla group tried to attack the train, but the Sikh commander talked to them and tried to hold them off, 
so after about an hour, we could finally leave that station. 
However, later some night, there was an attack at a different station, and there was a lot of firing. 
The Commander of the Army fought back and got injured himself. 
On the morning of the twentieth of September, and the train came to Ludhiana station, 
I saw the carts being filled with holes and a lot of injured and dead people. 
A hundred people might have been martyred, and a lot of women and children went missing, 
while maybe 40-50 people survived, including me. I prayed through the night and thanked God, that I survived. 
The train left at 11 AM and passed Amritsar, and finally came to Wagah, the border at Lahore in the evening, 
around the Maghrib prayer time. I can't describe the feeling when we reached there. 
At that moment, I did not feel the pain of not being with my family or any regret of being looted or coming to this country without anything, 
since when I stepped into the land of Pakistan, the peace that came within cannot be described in words. 
